Add C# / .NET example (#21206)
pingcap/docs: develop/dev-guide-sample-application-cs.md

---
title: Connect to TiDB with C#

> summary: Learn how to connect to TiDB using C#. This tutorial gives C# sample code snippets that work with TiDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Learn how to connect to TiDB using C#. This tutorial provides sample C# code snippets for interacting with TiDB.
```

> aliases: ['/tidb/dev/sample-application-cs','/tidb/dev/dev-guide-sample-application-cs']

Reviewer 2: Sorry, deleted.

# Connect to TiDB with C\#

C# (pronounced "C-Sharp") is one of the programming languages in the .NET family, developed by Microsoft. Other .NET languages include VB.NET and F#. In this tutorial, you will use C# along with MySQL Connector/NET to connect a C# application to TiDB using the MySQL protocol. This works because TiDB is highly [compatible with MySQL](/mysql-compatibility.md).

While .NET is commonly used on Windows, it is also available for macOS and Linux. Across all platforms, the commands and code are largely the same, with only minor differences in prompts and file paths.

## Prerequisites

- Download the [.NET 9.0 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download).
- This tutorial uses the `dotnet` command-line tool. Alternatively, you can use the Visual Studio Code IDE to work with C# code.

> - To complete this tutorial, you need access to a TiDB instance. You can use a TiDB Cloud Serverless or TiDB Cloud Dedicated cluster on TiDB Cloud, or a TiDB Self-Managed cluster, such as one started using `tiup playground`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- To complete this tutorial, you need access to a TiDB instance. You can use a [TiDB Cloud Serverless](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#tidb-cloud-serverless) or [TiDB Cloud Dedicated](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#tidb-cloud-dedicated) cluster on TiDB Cloud, or a TiDB Self-Managed cluster, such as one started using `tiup playground`.
```

This tutorial will use the command-line `dotnet` command. It is also possible to use the VS Code IDE to work with C# code.

> And you will need a TiDB cluster. This can be a serverless or dedicated instance on TiDB Cloud or a self-managed instance, for example with `tiup playground`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You need a TiDB Cloud Serverless or TiDB Cloud Dedicated cluster on TiDB Cloud, or a self-managed TiDB instance, for example with `tiup playground`.
```

> - To complete this tutorial, you need access to a TiDB instance. You can use a [TiDB Cloud Serverless](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#tidb-cloud-serverless) or [TiDB Cloud Dedicated](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#tidb-cloud-dedicated) cluster on TiDB Cloud, or a TiDB Self-Managed cluster, such as one started using `tiup playground`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- To complete this tutorial, you need access to a TiDB instance. You can use a [TiDB Cloud Serverless](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/select-cluster-tier/#tidb-cloud-serverless) or [TiDB Cloud Dedicated](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/select-cluster-tier/#tidb-cloud-dedicated) cluster on TiDB Cloud, or a TiDB Self-Managed cluster, such as one started using `tiup playground`.
```

log  : Restored /home/dvaneeden/tidb_cs/tidb_cs.csproj (in 551 ms).
```

## Step 3. Update the code

Replace the "Hello World" example in `Program.cs` with the following code.

```cs
using System;
using MySql.Data.MySqlClient;
public class Tutorial1
{
    public static void Main()
    {
        // For production, always use strong, unique passwords.
        string connStr = "server=127.0.0.1;user=root;database=test;port=4000;AllowUserVariables=true";
        MySqlConnection conn = new MySqlConnection(connStr);
        try
        {
            Console.WriteLine("Connecting to TiDB...\n");
            conn.Open();
        }
        catch (Exception ex)
        {
            Console.WriteLine(ex.ToString());
            Environment.Exit(1);
        }

        Console.WriteLine("Connected to: " + conn.ServerVersion);

        MySqlCommand cmd = new MySqlCommand("SELECT TIDB_VERSION()", conn);

        MySqlDataReader rdr = cmd.ExecuteReader();

        rdr.Read();
        Console.WriteLine("\nVersion details:\n" + rdr[0]);
        rdr.Close();

        conn.Close();
        Console.WriteLine("Done.");
    }
}
```

> This connects to a TiDB instance on the specified IP and port. If you use TiDB Cloud, replace connection string parameters (such as hostname, port, user, and password) with the details provided in the TiDB Cloud console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This connects to a TiDB instance on the specified IP and port. If you use TiDB Cloud, replace connection string parameters (such as hostname, port, user, and password) with the details provided in the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/).
```

What the code does is to connect to the database and print the version of the database. Then it runs a SQL query to get more version details by using [`TIDB_VERSION()`](/functions-and-operators/tidb-functions.md#tidb_version) and then it prints the result.

## Step 4. Run the program

```
$ dotnet run
Connecting to TiDB...

Connected to: 8.0.11-TiDB-v8.5.2

Version details:
Release Version: v8.5.2
Edition: Community
Git Commit Hash: f43a13324440f92209e2a9f04c0bbe9cf763978d
Git Branch: HEAD
UTC Build Time: 2025-05-29 03:30:55
GoVersion: go1.23.8
Race Enabled: false
Check Table Before Drop: false
Store: tikv
Done.

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```

---
title: Connect to TiDB with C#
summary: Learn how to connect to TiDB using C#. This tutorial gives C# sample code snippets that work with TiDB.
aliases: ['/tidb/dev/sample-application-cs','/tidb/dev/dev-guide-sample-application-cs']
---

# Connect to TiDB with C\#

C# (a.k.a. C-Sharp) is one of the languages from the .NET family as created by Microsoft. Other languages for .NET are VB.NET and F#. In this tutorial we will use C# and the MySQL Connector/NET to connect from a C# application to TiDB over the MySQL protocol. This is possible because TiDB is highly [compatible with MySQL](/mysql-compatibility.md).

> While .NET is often used on Windows, it is also available for macOS and Linux. For all platforms the commands and the
> code are similar. There may be small differences in the prompt and file paths.

Reviewer: Remove manual line break to pass the style check.
```suggestion
While .NET is often used on Windows, it is also available for macOS and Linux. For all platforms the commands and the code are similar. There may be small differences in the prompt and file paths.
```
